his view it does demonize sexuality it
does demonize the male orgasm of any
kind and it presumes that women are in
the role of being an obstacle to your
real goals that women are detractors
from your real goals your real ambitions
that women and male heterosexual
interest in women is something that
destroys your mental energy your
imagination your capacity to to do
something meaningful in life to build
your own business bill your future and
that is in a subtle and profound way
sick and evil and wrong in a logical and
philosophical sense the flaw here is
taking your own subjective experience of
sexuality treating it as a universal
standard and then looking at others and
saying hey if you don't feel how I feel
really secretly you do deep down inside
you're in denial psychologically you
guys are [ __ ] up what you're doing is
bad and demented and wrong and Ted
nothing could be further from the truth
so how's life oh how's school I dropped
out how's work I do YouTube now what
what I'm live-streaming while I record
this video two comments here right now
one says this is a huge distract
distraction from actual veganism and the
second one says why is this even a topic
so a few people are gonna watch this
video who have no interest in veganism
because you'll just see the title and
you'll think hey here's a here's a
critique of the the nofap phenomenon on
the Internet
but you may or may not know but with the
in veganism as Emmet just said this is
actually a huge distraction from
veganism so what seven months ago now
eight months ago when I was in Chiangmai
I got death threats and threats of
violence and defamation directed at me
but one year before that so now almost
two years ago the big crisis the big
confrontation in Chiang Mai Thailand
within the vegan movement was about
nofap was actually people defaming and
denouncing a one guy in particular
a no fapper the movement in this and
there were some of you are not old
enough to remember this but about two
years ago there was this ridiculous
situation and durianrider threatened to
beat this guy up and was making
demeaning comments about on the internet
and saying that he's you know he's not
sir he's losing his mind because he you
know he's not releasing enough tension
so actually at several points the the
nofa controversy has left to the fore
has been the main thing that we've been
debating in the vegan movement I made a
comment below a video from Ted Carr the
illustrious Ted car that I'll hear read
the comment is is still up unless he's
deleted it I wrote serious suggestion
what if you just have a much lower sex
drive than other guys and this is an
ideology that lets you glorify that
difference as if it were a virtue there
are guys who can ejaculate ten times in
a day without feeling the loss of energy
that you ascribe to just one ejaculation
I'm not glorifying either one as a
virtue but it really sounds like you're
misrepresenting a weakness as a strength
and now I'll just mention hey showed up
the Socratic method somebody asked asked
a question in response to that that that
led me to clarify what it is I'm saying
somebody misunderstood and thought that
I was claiming that having a low sex
drive itself is a weakness and I'm not
so I have a further comment I know it's
specifically what Ted Carr describes
feeling exhausted after he has an orgasm
that's what I'm saying is a weakness he
is describing and this is crucial to his
his philosophy of of nofa his philosophy
that men should withhold their their
orgasms is his extensive description of
a loss of mental energy above all else a
loss of focus a loss of imagination a
loss of any ambition to accomplish his
goals all of this ascribed to just
having one orgasm in a month one orgasm
in a week one orgasm in a day
is not typical that is not normal that
is definitely not universal this is why
I think actually the fundamental flaw in
Ted Carr's reasoning and it's a
fundamental flaw I think is widespread
and this this nofap anti masturbation
anti ejaculation subculture that
bizarrely overlaps with the the vegan
movement in a really weird way they take
their own subjective experience of
sexuality and turn it into a universal
standard for all men and it's not you
can look up at any peer-reviewed article
a chart showing variation in male
testosterone levels there's a huge
variation now sexual desire and men
varies for other reasons not just
because of testosterone it can also vary
because of how much zinc is in your diet
and if you're a raw vegan if you're one
on one of these really weird hippie
diets you may not be getting enough zinc
I have had times as a vegan what I had
way too much zinc in my diet that can
also happen but in responding to Ted car
you know I start by taking his
perspective seriously some people would
listen to these speeches from take car
and I listen to four of them now very
carefully to try to figure out what his
rationale for for nofap for refusing to
eject of what his rationale actually is
it's not easy to figure out although he
complains that ejaculating causes you to
lose focus the lack of focus in these
videos is unbelievable
so you know God maybe got to find a new
method to be a little bit more coherent
when you're on camera but the the two
factors here again having really study
whatever say number one the linchpin of
his whole worldview is his subjective
experience of a loss of energy through
having a male orgasm and I take that
seriously
some people would watch that and think
he's just lying would think he's making
it up to justify the rest of this
ideology and it's ultimately an ideology
of sexual purity and masculinity and
other things um I don't I take you
seriously Ted I am willing to believe
that that is how you experience male
sexuality what
why is there no capacity in you to
recognize that that is merely a
subjective and perhaps a typical
experience in male sexuality there are
men who have an orgasm and instead of
feeling they have less mental energy
feel that they have more why would that
even be surprising and dude there are
guys who can have 10 orgasms in a day
and I don't mean fapping I mean full
coitus the whole process of sex between
two parties and have more energy more
ambition more imagination I mean he's
mostly talking about so-called mental
energy who don't feel that as an
obstacle as something draining their
energies in life it only Stokes them up
more would that surprise you Ted it's
just as subjective as what you're
claiming but it's not [ __ ] Ted and I
don't want to venture a guess as to how
many men fall into which category and
how many men fall in the middle but what
Ted is doing here I mean it's not
dishonest but it is fundamentally flawed
in the same way that for example a
bisexual person a bisexual man might
take his own experience of life and
assume that it's universal and I have
known I've known bisexual men and
bisexual women and many of them can
reflect that at some point in their
lives
maybe when they were a little bit more
immature or engaging more wishful
thinking they did think that a lot of
bisexuals went through a phase where
they looked at the world around them and
thought all you people are bisexual
everyone feels the same way I do but you
people you people who are in the closet
you people who either think you're 100
percent straight or under percent gay
you're psychologically [ __ ] up you're
doing it wrong you should figure out
what I figured um and you know actually
it's even nastier but you could meet gay
and lesbian people who refuse to believe
that anyone's bisexual who think that
bisexuals are being dishonest either
dishonest with themselves and a
psychologically messed-up way that
everyone is either really straight or
really gay you can meet people who have
these kinds of frankly deeply held
misconceptions that are based on
I mean it's based on the same thing that
sympathy is based on that's why I say
it's not insincere it's based on saying
this is how I feel so I imagine I
empathize I imagine that you feel the
same way I feel and I don't I've had
conversations and when it's with older
and more mature people who are bisexual
I remember having a conversation with a
guy who was bisexual and he was saying
well yeah but I assume everyone feels
this way to some extent like everyone's
on a spectrum and we're saying to him
nope
like I hate to shock you but some of us
I don't know it doesn't even matter
maybe a minority some of us actually are
100% heterosexual and I think by the way
I think the fact that I'm at 100% I
think it makes me more comfortable being
around gays and bisexuals because it
doesn't doesn't bother me I think maybe
if you're if you're on the spectrum if
you're somewhere in the middle you feel
some ambivalence the guys you feel some
ambivalence I can understand why they're
uncomfortable like being in a shower
with other naked men I don't feel that
at all because that it's nothing to me
to see a naked man to me is the same
thing as seeing of a car or chair like
it's just nothing but no I've had those
kind of conversations people still look
um and you know look I could make the
mistake to the way someone could look at
Ted Carr and say no this guy is deeply
psychologically [ __ ] up he's in denial
about his own sex drive I don't think
that at all I think Ted is being sincere
from his subjective point of view his
experience of male sexuality about this
terrible loss of mental energy fields
but he's making the mistake of assuming
that it's typical or normal or universal
that this is the general case and that
all other men should do what he does in
order to have the little bit of focus
and imagination and mental energy that
he has and the second thing that I think
is crucial to Ted's view of the world
here and maybe to the no-fat movement in
general maybe not there is a very
peculiar kind of misogyny that comes out
of this and the word misogyny is
overused maybe I shouldn't use it all
there's a very strange way of blaming
women for your problem that comes out of
this because his his view it does
demonize sexuality it does demonize the
male orgasm of any kind and it presumes
that women are in the role of being an
obstacle to your real goals that women
are detractors from your real goals your
real ambitions that women and male
heterosexual interest in women is
something that destroys your mental
energy your imagination your capacity to
to do something meaningful in life to
build your own business build your
future and that is in a subtle and
profound way sick and evil and wrong
here just listen carefully to what he
says for for 30 seconds nothing you
should never touch yourself again I
think you should never have sex never
orgasm again never I've never said that
but when you don't do it so often you
just have so much more energy up up top
up here for the brain if so much more
energy in your foot maybe you do Ted
maybe you do your body you switch my
life voice along with your body is so
much more focused on other things in
life then all of a sudden and you don't
have to recover from the down that comes
from orgasming you don't need to clean
up the mess that comes after orgasm you
don't need to help tell your imagination
into [ __ ] some girl your imagination
instead goes to instead creating
business or critten life your dreams are
creating your dream family for half did
you catch that you don't have to waste
your imagination on some girl you don't
need to you know pull your imagination
into [ __ ] some girl think about it
Ted on a deep level you've let this
demonization of the male orgasm itself
extend into what's really a kind of
misogynistic view of women that
demonizes them and demonizes their role
in your life as an unwanted obstacle to
creating a beautiful garden pursuing
your business and what-have-you and
again my experience is very much at the
opposite extreme and I'm not in such a
small minority Ted there were tons of
men there
and/or successful businessmen who will
tell you you know there they would never
have been successful in business without
this woman in their life supporting them
I talked about that in an earlier video
responding to rich Piana and what he
says about about relationships so look
it's bad it's evil it's sick and it's
wrong and it's it's in a logical and
philosophical sense the flaw here is
taking your own subjective experience of
sexuality treating it as a universal
standard and then looking at others and
saying hey if you don't feel how I feel
really secretly you do deep down inside
you're in denial psychologically you
guys are [ __ ] up what you're doing is
bad and demented and wrong and Ted
nothing could be further from the truth
there's a guy you may have heard of
called Mohandas Gandhi make a Mahatma
Gandhi famous political leader in India
that guy had the most sick and twisted
sex life imaginable there's a famous
article in commentary magazine about
that in English it was well known in the
newspapers at the time but he raised
this same issue that I raised like what
is the point of no FAP what is the point
of living in celibacy if you just don't
feel any sexual desire anyway if you're
not tempted if you're not turned on if
you just have a low sex drive what's the
significance of not having sex when you
don't want sex and Gandhi his response
to this actually was getting into bed
with younger women some of them
scandalously younger and he would in
effect get aroused get an erection but
not ejaculate it's this no fat [ __ ]
that has really deep roots in all of the
religions of India in Hinduism in
Buddhism I'm not going to get into in
this video but if you think this pseudo
scientific style of thinking that
somehow you're increasing your mental
energy by having your sexual fluids pent
up inside you this delusion has deep
roots and these guys may be responding
to [ __ ] from white Western yoga
practitioners or white Western Buddhists
or Hindus Reacher's of other kinds I
don't know to what extent these guys are
misled by those sources but there's
definitely you could say there's a kind
of
Eurocentric view of nofap and there are
also these deeper roots in Asian
religions to it their deeper roots but
they're also bad and dangerous and wrong
my view of sexuality when I first got
involved with Buddhism there was stuff
in Buddhist philosophy that resonated
with me because in Buddhism
fundamentally sexuality is characterized
as something that's kind of like an ever
receding horizon something that's
infinite but infinite in a kind of
tragic and self-defeating manner so you
know simple way to summarize the tera
vaada Buddhist view of sexuality is it
doesn't matter if you've had sex a
hundred times you'll want to have it 101
times it doesn't matter if you have
added 10,000 times you want to have a
ten thousand one and that was something
I could relate to you know this tragic
sense of sexuality as as being something
that can never be satisfied
and where in some sense it's meaningless
to to therefore to even try to satisfy
now again maybe a TED car seems to be
the opposite extreme but I remember back
when I was back when I was much more
into but his philosophy I have one day
where I got together with my girlfriend
and that day in total we had sex
eight times that's not my personal best
Ted it's not and when we had sex six
times these are only the male orgasms
were counting here the female orgasms
are into the double digits or whatever
and then I left to go buy some food and
come back you can lose a lot of weight
if you're in a loving relationship like
this we're having a lot of sex because
you forget to cook and you forget to eat
and I left the apartments but went down
the road
and I remember thinking to myself
because you know I was reading a lot of
Buddhist philosophy at the time I
thought wow so maybe for these 15
minutes maybe just now while I'm walking
to the bakery and walking back again I
won't feel any sexual desire you know me
you know it was just kind of joking with
myself these are my 15 minutes of
nirvana right like okay fine like I
should be so exhausted this doesn't even
enter my mind and you know I again I
just had to kind of smile on myself
no on the way to the bakery it was
good-looking woman next to me on the
sidewalk and I think she just made eye
contact with me and smiled at me a
better so it's no big deal
but let me tell you something I was
interested on that instinctual level I
was interested again in terms of his
claim that you have a loss of energy or
a you know loss of ambition or zeal I
think I had more I think the fact that
I'd had so much sex that one day I was
probably more amped up I was maybe if I
didn't have any said maybe I wouldn't
even notice to her them eye contact
wouldn't have sparked anything in me but
I was I was not running out of spark and
like I said I got the food I went back
to my girlfriend's room and we had sex
two more times that day we did we didn't
total but to me I mean coming back to
the original comment I left below the
video what if this is just an ideologies
that lets you glorify this difference
ultimately a biological difference in
your level of sex drive maybe your level
of testosterone what have you why
glorify this as if it's a virtue my
point is not that having a high sex
drive is a virtue is not to glorify a
high sex drive is not to glorify a low
sex drive I think we're just into a
category of human sexual experience that
has remained in the shadows at a time
when you know the gay experience the
bisexual experience when all kinds of
other perspectives on sexuality have
gone public it's much more rare even if
you're sitting with a group of
heterosexual guys to talk openly in a
down-to-earth way about what it's like
coping with a really high sex drive or
like in Ted Carr's case what it's like
coping with a really low sex drive you
can look at you know the medical charts
you got three standard deviations and
more of testosterone levels in men
there's just enormous biological
variation and it has never been put into
a category that got highly politicized
the way gay bisexual and straight were
so I think this is something that a lot
of us
I guess are still in denial about look
Ted you may not believe me some of us
can have sex eight times in a day and
feel even more energetic and still be
going for nine and ten and some of us
can have loving relationships with women
in our lives in which the women actually
help us achieve our goal in which the
women positively inspire us to achieve
our goals in which like even if it's
just having someone who cares about you
and loves you and talks to you about
your goals in life even if she's not
involved like let's take the most
stereotypical male only activity even if
you were a dude and your passion in life
is fixing up old cars you know these
guys who have a garage and they buy a
broken-down car from the 1960s and they
[ __ ] repair the car yeah you know
what there are very few women very few
headers or who are into that there are
some there are some it's very likely if
that's your passion life is a man that
the woman in your life is not going to
be in the garage with you helping you
fix that car but you know what your
relationship with her can still be a
wonderful positive motivating inspiring
part of your life that even is
positively helping you achieve that goal
there is no reason to assume as Ted does
here that these women are kind of like
vampires
you don't need to tell your imagination
into [ __ ] some girl